---
title: The Hive, Part 1
date: 2020-09-23 15:17 -05:00
categories: [Projects, The Hive]
tags: [games, golang, thehive]
---

# The Game Idea
I've been fascinated by programming games most of my life.  I've played [Robocode](https://robocode.sourceforge.io), [Screeps](https://screeps.com), every game [Zachtronics](http://www.zachtronics.com) has released...you name it.  And yet, even though I have written a couple of (ugly, unreleased) games myself, I've never attempted a programming game.

Time to mark that off the bucket list.

# A Plan
As I stated in my [last post](/posts/intro), I have a tendency to go off the rails when I work on games.  I invariably find some interesting corner-case or some cool new feature and hare off down the path of implementing it, burning out all of my enthusiasm for the project along the way.  So before I get started this time, I'm going to plan out what I'll implement.

## Concept
The core concept of the game is that you are attempting to guide a nanobot hive to world domination.  Unfortunately, you and the rest of the world were buried underground when World War III ended.  You'll have to manage your available resources, explore the map to find more supplies (and enemies), and eventually eradicate the other hives before they destroy you.  Oh, and you have to do all of this without being able to directly control anything but the camera.

## Graphics
We're going to keep the graphics simple:
* 2d only
* No sprites, just colored primitive shapes
	* This is subject to change if I find a fun sprite set, or can convince one of my artistically-inclined friends to help
* Basic pan/zoom controls
* No lighting in the first iteration

## Your Bots
The bots you control are simple machines that have a number of sensors and controls.  This is my off-the-cuff list of what sounds interesting to me right now.  I don't really expect this to be the final version of the bots, just a place to start and a limit to what I try to implement until I call a milestone complete and deliberately refocus on a new direction.

### Sensors
* Bot's location as a 2d offset from the hive
* Bot's current heading as an angle from north (+y)
* Gives angle, distance, and friend/foe status of any bots within scanner range
* Distance to an obstacle in each quadrant (front, back, left, right) around the bot

### Controls
* Forward/backward speed, as a percentage of "full throttle"
* Left/right turn speed as a percentage of max turn rate
* "Fire" button for forward-facing laser

With those basics, we have everything we need except resource collection.  I think that's a good place to start for now.

## Your Hive
The Hive is the place where you will eventually gather resources, and where you build new bots.  For the first pass, let's just assume that you can create a new bot every 10 seconds, and have a maximum of twenty bots running at once.  Once we have a working model of the game, we'll worry about defining our resources and how that balances out creating new bots.

I'd like to eventually require that the player manage their "compute resource", too, so more complex behavior is more expensive to run, but for now I'm not going to worry about that at all.

## The Map
Let's start simple.  We'll have an arbitrarily-large map with an impassible border, and a random number of rectangular obstacles scattered around.

# Milestones
I have a definition of a "minimum playable game" up there, so where do I start?   I guess getting a window open with a representation of a bot is a good start, but what next?  I'm going to lay out some milestones to give myself an idea of where I should go.

## Milestone 1
* Open a window with a title
* Display a gray triangle (representing a bot) in the middle of the screen
* Have this auto-compile and produce executable artifacts for Windows, Linux, and MacOS

Boring, but an important first step.
## Milestone 2
* Define the map area and its data representation
* Define the representation of a bot and the hive
* Define our programming/control model for the bots

## Milestone 3
* Implement enough of our control model that we can define an agent that at least moves a bot back and forth on the map

I'll regroup after milestone 3, assess the state of the project and where I am mentally, and go from there.