---
title: The Hive, Part 4
date: 2020-09-25 15:14 -05:00
categories: [Projects, The Hive]
tags: [games, golang, thehive]
---

Well, I fell down a rabbit hole.  In this case, however, it's more like a sudden sinkhole.

I forgot that in using a very basic game library, I have given up having a scene graph structure already built.  Compounding that with a need to build some kind of ECS, I've caught myself in a chicken-and-egg problem that I'm going to have to solve before I move forward.  So, I'm going to use this blog as a place to rubber-duck my ideas.

# Why a scene graph?
A scene graph is an incredibly useful data structure for a game.  Having a hierarchial transform system potentially saves a lot of math and update calls.  And as I type this it occurs to me that it has another useful feature in that it removes the need for a whole class of component systems.  If the scene graph itself is a system, then every tick it can be updated and perform the following steps:

1. Any time a transform is updated or a parent/child relationship is modified, mark the child (and all of its children) as dirty
1. When the scene graph is updated, start at the root node and walk the children
1. If a child is marked dirty, recalculate its computed transform based on its parent's computed transform

With that in mind, our scene graph structure can look something like this:
```go
type SceneNode struct {
	baseTransform, calculatedTransform pixel.Matrix
	parent *SceneNode
	children []*SceneNode
	dirty bool
}

func (s *SceneNode) markDirty() {
	s.dirty = true
	for child := range children {
		child.markDirty()
	}
}

func (s *SceneNode) SetTransform(t pixel.Matrix) {
	s.baseTransform = t
	s.markDirty()
}

func (s *SceneNode) recalcTransform() {
	s.calculatedTransform = s.Parent.calculatedTransform.Chained(s.baseTransform)
	for child := range children {
		child.recalcTransform()
	}
	s.dirty = false
}
```

This also leads to the ability to track bounding boxes for nodes and perform pre-draw clipping.

I'll try and have this implemented soon.