---
title: Entity Component Systems in Go
date: 2020-10-02 21:21 -05:00
categories: [GameDev, GoLang]
tags: [games, golang]
---

It's been a few days and work has been busy and given me the opportunity to use Go again.  I _have_ been thinking about The Hive, though.

# ECS and Go

I've made decent progress on the ECS system in Go, but the issue I keep running across is that there are a boatload of type checks and slice creations.  So many that moving to the ECS has introduced a noticeable stutter in the little demo scene that I've written. This won't do.

The issue is that each system has to query for the entities it needs each time `Update` is called, and that requires slice iteration, allocation, and growth on the entity manager side, and then type conversions and checks on the system side.  That a lot of overhead on every frame.

# A New Approach

I think a good trade-off will be for each system to have a curated list of the entities it's interested in.  This will allow me to keep track of the components as a concrete type, rather than having to cast from `interface{}` every frame.

We'll start by adding a new interface:
```go
type EntityListener interface {
    Added(EntityId, ComponentId, interface{})
    Removed(EntityId, ComponentId)
    Destroyed(EntityId)
}
```

And then the EntityManager has new methods:
```go
func (m *EntityManager) RegisterInterest(ComponentId, EntityListener) {
    // ...
}

func (m *EntityManager) RemoveInterest(ComponentId, EntityListener) {
    // ...
}
```

Each time an entity has a component added or removed, all systems that have registered their interest in that component ID are notified, and any time an entity is destroyed ALL registered listeners are notified.

I'm going to try and get that implemented tonight and tomorrow morning, and see how it goes.